Welcome to part two of name recognition we just saw how we can add a single term as our own named entity.
For example we saw how we could add the single term Tesla but what if we have several terms as possible
named entities and this continued lecture we're going to go over how to add in multiple phrases as any
are.
For example if we're working with a vacuum company or their own custom text for marketing purposes we
might want to add both vacuum space cleaner and vacuum cleaner as a named entity such as a product entity.
Let's go ahead and jump to that you bring up and show you how you can add multiple named entities.
OK here I am at the Jupiter Notebook.
We're going to begin by creating a new document object and the object is going to have two strings inside
of it just so we can show off multiple phrases.
The first will be our company created a brand new vacuum space cleaner and then the second one another
other string here all in the same function that need to separate if a comma will say this new vacuum
cleaner is the best in show.
So we had this new documents and noticed we have vacuum cleaner with a space between the words and vacuum
cleaner of a dash.
Previously if you come back up here and check our previous work we saw how to add in a single phrase
or basically a single term like Tesla as a new entity.
So he showed you how to do that by adding it in.
Now we're going to do is we're not going to show multiple options so vacuum cleaner and vacuum cleaner
and then we're going to do this is we're first going to attempt to show entities on the document just
to show you that vacuum cleaner hasn't actually been added or anything.
So if I run that no entities are found.
So let's go ahead and add a vacuum cleaner in a vacuum cleaner as named entities to do this for multiple
phrases.
We're going to say it from.
Matter import phrase matcher and then we will say matcher is equal to the phrase matcher and will pass
in an LP vocab and the next we're going to do is create the desired list of patterns.
So make a list of all the phrases you want to add in as a named entity.
And for our case we want to add in vacuum cleaner so vacuum space cleaner.
And we also do vacuum dash cleaner.
So there's a phrase list and now we actually need to turn these into phrase patterns by passing them
into the function it will say phrase patterns is equal to and we use a little bit of list comprehension
here by saying a.p text for text in phrase list.
After that we're going to apply the patterns to add or match or objects will say matter add and you
can name whatever matcher you want so we'll just say or new product again.
The string is completely up to you whatever you want to call this.
Go ahead and review the vocabulary and matching lecture.
When I say none.
For the callback and then an Asterix and then phrase underscore patterns.
This automatically adds in each of these vacuum cleaner and vacuum cleaner.
So now we have our phrase patterns added as a new set of matchers called new product.
Next we want to do is actually find the matches will say found matches is equal to matcher doc and we
check out our found matches we found that twice.
So we found that once here at the end the vacuum cleaner and here the middle this new vacuum cleaner.
So there are two matches for us and then we're going to do is from here.
We can actually create spans from each match in Korean names and cities from them.
We will say from speccy that tokens import Spanne.
That's actually the same thing we imported.
We were adding just a single term and then it's up to you to decide what actual names and dates you
want.
You can check out our names and it's the recognition notebook for all the various tags.
In this case we're going to say these vacuum cleaners are a product sort of come back here and say Prod.
is equal to Doc dot vocab dot strings.
And as a unicode string what you're going to do is passen whatever the string here for a type is.
And in our case it's all caps product so recopy this one person in here and then we're going to use
a little bit of miscomprehension here.
So recall that inside a found matches there's tuples with three items in it.
We're really only concerned with these two items the start and the end and we're going to use span to
actually define the start the span and the end of the span.
So I to have something that looks like this span going to pass in the document.
That is the original document appear where our company created brand new vacuum cleaner this new vacuum
cleaner is best in show.
So that's the documents and then we're going to actually grab for each match.
Index one start and then index to its end and we're going to say that its label should be Prod. which
was defined here using doc that vocab.
And we're going to be creating these spans for every single match inside of found matches so we can
use some LIT's comprehension to say inside of this list for match in found matches and we're going to
set this equal to our new entities.
Again we're just creating these span objects using the original documents and all the found matches
the start and the stop and then manually labeling them as a product.
So there we have our new entities and then we take the doc and say those are the original entities that
are documents we're going to set it equal to the original entities Plus our new entities.
And you could also use a pen.
But this works the same way in Python essentially all we're doing is remember Doc ants originally it
has no entities.
Now we're taking this list of new entities that we find and then adding it into the original which means
now if I say show entities on the document it returns back both vacuum space cleaner and vacuum cleaner
as products.
So this is now how you can manually add in your own named entities if you have a list of entities you
want to pass in.
Now previously we saw how Spacey had built in tools for counting the number of parts of speech.
It actually doesn't have a built in count by method for counting the number of named entities but we
can easily do this with a little bit of list comprehension.
And in fact we can't even filter based off the label.
So what we can do here is let's imagine we have in other documents
and we wanted to figure out how many times was a money entity mentioned.
So say originally I paid
will say twenty nine ninety five for this car.
Or let's say car toy if I preachy for your car and then we'll say but now it is marked down by $10.
OK so we have this documents and let's say this documents really long and you want to figure out how
many times was money mentioned here or any type of named entity you have.
So you say how many times were people mentioned or was a corporation or a nationality mentioned et cetera.
Right now we're just looking for this money tag.
How many of those do we actually have.
All we need to do is the following.
We can simply create a list comprehension saying give me the entity for every entity in dock in TS.
If you just check this list right here that's going to give you every single entity but you only want
a specific entity.
So you'll say if Antz label underscore is equal to and then whatever else you're interested in.
In our case it's money.
So if you run that that gives the entities and if you want to check how many of them you can just check
the length of that list
that is it for this series of lectures on named entities.
I hope you can tell just how powerful Spacey is even on its own at recognizing named entities and the
flexibility it gives you to add not just single terms but multiple named entities for your own custom
text data sets.
We'll see you at the next lecture where we talk in more depth about visualizing named entity recognition.